---
deltaDoc: true
version: "4.2.0"
---

# 4.2.0 Change Notes

Table of contents:

- [4.2.0 Change Notes](#4.2.0 Change Notes)
  - [@itwin/appui-react](#itwinappui-react)
    - [Changes](#changes)
    - [Fixes](#fixes)
  - [@itwin/core-react](#itwincore-react)
    - [Changes](#changes-1)
    - [Fixes](#fixes-1)
  - [@itwin/components-react](#itwincomponents-react)
    - [Additions](#additions)
    - [Changes](#changes-2)

## @itwin/appui-react

### Changes

- Eliminated custom logic responsible for containing the popped-out widget's location on the screen. Now, when the user opens the popout widget, it will reappear in the same position it was last closed.

### Fixes

- Resolved an issue that prevented opening widget popouts from within an iFrame. Please note that sandboxed iFrames still require the allow-popups attribute.
- Fixed an issue with rendering of toolbar badge icons that was caused by conversion of toolbar item definitions.
- Fixed `ThemeManager` component to ensure proper initialization of opacity values during component mount.

## @itwin/core-react

### Changes

- Made `MessageBox` appearance consistent with @itwin/itwinui-react `Dialog` component without introducing breaking changes. This change is a stepping stone for standardizing iTwinUI `Dialog` component.
- Loaded `svg` from a URL is now cached by `IconWebComponent` and will be reused between render in different places, skipping the fetch/parsing it was doing each time before.

### Fixes

- Apps can now use React icons directly for conditional display using the `ConditionalIconItem`. While this class was available in 4.0, there were implementation errors that prevented its use.

## @itwin/components-react

### Additions

- Promoted `TreeNodeContent` and `TreeNodeIcon` to `public`.
- Improved context menu support in `ControlledTree` by exposing `onContextMenu` callback through `TreeNodeRendererProps`.

### Changes

- Improved property layout in `VirtualizedPropertyGrid` to make sure action buttons does not overflow on small screens.
- In the `PropertyFilterBuilder`, the focus is now set on the property selector when the user clicks on the "+ Rule" and "+ Rule Group" buttons.
- Enhanced `PropertyFilterBuilder` to allow filtering when there are empty filter rules.
- Updated delete button logic of `PropertyFilterBuilder` to clear rule instead of removing it when there is only one rule left in the rule group.
- The `PropertyFilterBuilder` now sets the `contains` operator as the default for string and text properties.

